TR-5215 Document x-pagination (#374)
transposit/docs: references/create-a-data-connector.md

```

The user can now retrieve these credential values in the Transposit operation code, form them into whatever auth configuration style the data connector expects, and then pass them into the data connector's operations just like any other parameters.

## Pagination

Many APIs allow clients to fetch pages of data. Transposit uses an OpenAPI extension to support the most common flavors of pagination.
By adding this extension to your OpenAPI file, we can make your data connector easier to use and prevent your app from hitting the memory usage cap.

### The x-pagination extension

> You can add the x-pagination extension to any operation in your OpenAPI file. In it, you can define a resultsPath and/or a pagination strategy to use for the operation. Some fields expect numbers, but others expect values that refer to parameters or locations in the request or response body. For these, we suggest using OpenAPI's [runtime-expression syntax](https://swagger.io/specification/#runtimeExpression) to describe the location.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can add the `x-pagination` extension to any operation in your OpenAPI file. In it, you can define a `resultsPath` and/or a pagination strategy to use for the operation. Some fields expect numbers, but others expect values that refer to parameters or locations in the request or response body. For these, we suggest using OpenAPI's [runtime-expression syntax](http://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.0.2#runtime-expressions) to describe the location.
```

```yaml
/list:
  get:
    operationId: list
    x-pagination:

>       # Describe how to page through results here

Reviewer 2: Maybe "Describe how to page through results here, further details below."

```

### The Result Path

> Many APIs nest the list of results you care about within a JSON structure. You can use the resultsPath to make your connector return those results directly, on its own, or in conjunction with any other pagination strategy.

Reviewer 2: Nit: "on its own, or in" should be "on its own or in"

> Many APIs nest the list of results you care about within a JSON structure. You can use the resultsPath to make your connector return those results directly, on its own, or in conjunction with any other pagination strategy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many APIs nest the list of results you care about within a JSON structure. You can use the `resultsPath` to make your connector return those results directly, on its own, or in conjunction with any other pagination strategy.
```

```yaml
x-pagination:
  resultsPath: "$response.body#/items"
```

> - `resultsPath` describes where in the response to find the results the operation should return.

Reviewer 2: "describes where in the response to find the results the operation should return." is a bit awkward.

How about "describes the location of the results in the response object. These results will be returned by this operation." 

Also, I'm not sure what you mean by 'operation' here. The transposit operation? something else?

Author: Yes, 'the operation' means "the Transposit operation that corresponds to the OpenAPI operation where you added the extension."

Reviewer: +1! It gets confusing since `operation` is part of the OpenAPI Spec.

### Offset Pagination

> Use this strategy if the API lets you skip to the Nth element and return a number of results starting from there.

Reviewer 2: Love the strategies and the explanation of them in lay terms. Any chance you could provide an example for each one. ("Slack does offset pagination." in this section. "AWS does page-offset pagination" in that section. Etc.)

Author: I could look and try to figure that out. I don't know that I think it contributes much to the docs, though; unless the reader already has a lot of familiarity with the specific APIs we use as examples, it only helps if they then go and read the docs for that API, and only to the extent that the API has good documentation

Reviewer 2: Fair point. I thought it might be helpful for people looking for examples to help crib, but I'll defer to your experience.

Author: I considered referencing the giphy connector as a fully worked example of how to use this, though it only gives an example for offset pagination.

```yaml
x-pagination:
  offset:
    offsetParam: "$request.query.offset"
    limitParam: "$request.query.limit"
    maxLimit: 100
```

- `offsetParam` describes where in the request to put the starting index of the response.
- `limitParam` describes where in the request to put the number of results to include per page.

> - `maxLimit` describes the largest number of results the API would ever serve.

Reviewer 2: "largest number of results the API would ever serve" is a bit confusing. Do you mean the total number of results, or the largest number that would be served up in one page? Is it optional if an API has no limit on the number of results?

Author: I meant the maximum results on a single page. I can probably find better wording.

I don't want to call it optional, because I don't think we've tested what happens if you leave it off. Thinking about it, it _might_ just work. But it might not. We should test this. In practice, I think most APIs with pagination have a limit, even if they don't document it. I couldn't find any documentation for giphy when I played around with it, but it still capped at 1000. And if the API _does_ have a max limit, I think our implementation will break if we don't know it; at least for page offset and possibly other strategies.

If the API _actually_ has no max page size, users still might want to add one to limit memory usage. Alternately, we may want to set an arbitrary cap regardless of this value.

Reviewer 2: S3 listing of objects has pagination but no limit, I believe. Anyway, makes sense to explain it a bit more.

Author: I double-checked the code. It looks like we do require it, but it should work fine so long as it has any value less than or equal to the max limit of the API. This means users could set a large arbitrary cap for an API with no limit. Maybe we should cagily redefine this as "the largest page size transposit will ever request". I can also file a ticket to make this optional; I  don't think that would take very much work.

By adding this extension to your OpenAPI file, we can make your data connector easier to use and prevent your app from hitting the memory usage cap.

### The x-pagination extension

You can add the `x-pagination` extension to any operation in your OpenAPI file. In it, you can define a `resultsPath` and/or a pagination strategy to use for the operation. Some fields expect numbers, but others expect values that refer to parameters or locations in the request or response body. For these, we suggest using OpenAPI's [runtime-expression syntax](http://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.0.2#runtime-expressions) to describe the location.

```yaml
/list:
  get:
    operationId: list
    x-pagination:
      # Describe how to page through results here, further details below
```

### The Result Path

Many APIs nest the list of results you care about within a JSON structure. You can use the `resultsPath` to make your connector return those results directly, on its own or in conjunction with any other pagination strategy.

```yaml
x-pagination:
  resultsPath: "$response.body#/items"
```

> - `resultsPath` describes the location of the results in the response body. The Transposit operation will return these results directly.

Reviewer 3: Maybe add a sentence about how to notate nested paths, like `$response.body#/response_metadata/next_cursor` or whatever?

Author: I hoped that linking to the runtime-expression syntax would cover it. But they also punt on defining that to the RFC for JSON Pointers.

Reviewer 3: IMO, if docs require one to go to more than one layer of indirection to understand something, people will not do it and therefore will not know.

Author: Maybe I can just change this to something like "$response.body#/path/to/items" to make it clearer?

Reviewer 3: That would do it for me, yes.

### Offset Pagination

Use this strategy if the API lets you skip to the Nth element and return a number of results starting from there.

```yaml
x-pagination:

>   offset:

Reviewer 3: I wonder if it would be helpful to others to see the resultsPath in these examples as well, just because then it's clearer where it lies in relation to the cursor/offset/nextUrl indent.

Author: I considered this, but decided against it because 1. it felt repetitive, and 2. I thought it could give the impression that users _needed_ a resultPath, which they don't.

Reviewer 3: Yaml is tricky that way though; when I was converting slack's pagination, I didn't realize that resultsPath wasn't nested under the pagination type, so I had to fix it.

What happens when there isn't a resultsPath? I think I've always used one, so I didn't realize you could go without. How do we know where the results are without it?

Author: Then we use the whole response as the result. Same as if you didn't use the extension at all.

Someone might want to do this in (e.g.) an offset or page-offset paginated API that just returns the list of results for the page as the whole JSON body.
